# pacman

My agent is based off of the baseline.py implementation of the ReflexCaptureAgent, OffensiveAgent, and DefensiveAgent. I adapted the chooseAction function of the ReflexCaptureAgent to include a counter for each time the opponent’s food is picked up and when the agent has collected a certain amount of food, it will change its behavior and instead of searching for more food, it will go back to its own side of the board to “drop off” the food. This helps because in many cases, pacman would continue to search for food only to be found by an opponent and lose all the food it had found. This greatly improved the overall performance of the agent. 

I also implemented helper functions for the ReflexCaptureAgent. The function getEnemies finds all the opponents and appends them to a list. This is then used by closestEnemy in order to find the minimum distance from the current location of the pacman to the nearest enemy. This is the only enemy that is of immediate concern to the agent and it returns the distance to that enemy.

The OffensiveReflexAgent acts as an agent that’s primary task is to search for food, however I added additional functionality so it takes into consideration the nearest enemy and the capsules. The OffensiveReflexAgent finds the distance to the nearest food and values that at the value of that distance. It also determines if there is a capsule, and if so starts a timer that will change the values for 40 turns so priority is no longer given on avoiding enemies or finding capsules and a puts all of the emphasis on finding food while the opponents cannot harm the agent. At a default, it puts a majority of the emphasis on avoiding enemies, as while finding food is important to winning, if there is an enemy within a close distance the most important thing is to get away from the enemy.

There were many ideas that I expected to work however was unable to implement successfully with an improvement in performance. I tried to have the agent greatly prioritize running away and giving no consideration to any other features when an agent was near, however that did not end up improving performance. I also attempted to improve the DefensiveReflexAgent, but was not able to come upon any improvements for this. In the case of the defensive agent when there were no invaders in its sight, I tried to have pacman, instead of randomly moving around, go to the center of the board so it would have an increased chance of being near an invader when it came. However, this created problems for my agent. I also made an attempt at determining if the ghosts were scared and having the agent act accordingly, which I was also not able to implement with success. 
